specification.md, before:

# Phronesis Product Specification (MVP)

## Project Metadata
- GitHub Organization: genai-gurus
- Main Repo: https://github.com/genai-gurus/phronesis
- Azure Resource Prefix: phronesis
- Default Branch: main


## Overview & Vision
Phronesis is a B2C platform for mindful decision-making. It helps users reflect on past decisions, capture insights, and receive tailored decision support based on their values, personality, and circumstances. The platform aims to foster a habit of mindful decision-making, leveraging user-generated data for a feedback flywheel that enables deep personalization and continuous improvement.

## Target Audience
Individuals who fear losing or recently lost their job due to AI automation.

## Tone & Branding
The platform should feel warm and supportive, offering encouragement and empathy throughout the user journey.

## MVP Scope
- Focus on a functional MVP that implements the tasks listed in progress.md.
- Prioritize features that support reflection, journaling, and basic value assessment.

## CI/CD Status & Contributor Guidance (as of 2025-04-16)
- LLM-as-judge integration test runs in CI for Decision Support Chat API (uses OpenAI GPT-4.1-nano as a judge).
- Test output (including OpenAI prompts, answers, and verdicts) is printed in CI logs for transparency.
- backend/test.db is deleted before every CI run to ensure a clean test environment.
- Black formatting is enforced for all backend Python code and tests.
- .env, test.db, and temporary files are gitignored and never committed.
- All secrets (e.g., OPENAI_API_KEY) are managed via GitHub Actions secrets or .env files (never committed).

- Both backend and frontend CI/CD pipelines (GitHub Actions) are fully passing.
- **Backend pipeline:** Installs with Poetry, checks formatting with Black, and runs all pytest tests with `PYTHONPATH=.`. Contributors must ensure code is formatted and all tests pass before merging.
- **Frontend pipeline:** Installs Node dependencies, lints with ESLint, runs Vitest tests, and builds with Vite. All source files (especially `index.html` and new components/pages) must be tracked by git.
- **Troubleshooting:**
  - If backend tests fail with import errors, check `PYTHONPATH=.` and module locations.
  - If frontend build fails, ensure `index.html` is present and all relevant files are committed.
  - If Black fails, run `poetry run black app tests` and commit.
- See README.md files for more troubleshooting and pipeline details.

---

## Backend Deployment to Azure App Service (Docker, GHCR)

### Overview
The backend is deployed to Azure App Service using a custom Docker image, which is built and pushed to GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) via GitHub Actions. This process ensures secure, production-grade deployment with best practices for secret management and image hygiene.

### Prerequisites
- **Azure App Service** instance created (Linux, Docker).
- **GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)** used for storing production images (see workflow).
- Required secrets set in Azure App Service Configuration:
  - `DATABASE_URL`
  - `OPENAI_API_KEY`
  - Any other environment variables needed for production.

### Deployment Steps
1. **Build and Push Docker Image**
   - The GitHub Actions workflow ([.github/workflows/azure-backend.yml](.github/workflows/azure-backend.yml)) builds the Docker image and pushes it to GHCR at `ghcr.io/genai-gurus/phronesis/phronesis-backend:<sha>`.
   - The Dockerfile uses Poetry for dependency management and installs all production dependencies.

2. **Configure App Service**
   - Set environment variables in the Azure Portal under Configuration > Application settings.
   - Never store secrets in the image or repository; always inject at runtime.

3. **Update .dockerignore**
   - `.dockerignore` excludes files such as `.env`, `secrets.*`, `*.key`, `*.pem` to prevent accidental leakage of secrets.

4. **Production Dependencies**
   - `gunicorn` must be included in `[tool.poetry.dependencies]` in `pyproject.toml` to ensure the container can start with the correct command.
   - After adding new dependencies, always run `poetry lock` and commit the updated lock file.

5. **Run Database Migrations**
   - After deployment, run Alembic migrations on your production database:
     ```sh
     poetry run alembic upgrade head
     ```

6. **Test the Deployment**
   - Access the app at `https://phronesis-backend-app.azurewebsites.net`.
   - Optionally, test `/docs` or `/health` endpoints for confirmation.

### Security Best Practices
- **No secrets in Docker images:** All secrets are injected at runtime via environment variables.
- **.dockerignore:** Ensures sensitive files are never included in the build context.
- **Public images:** If publishing images publicly on GHCR, ensure no secrets or sensitive files are present in the image.

### Troubleshooting
- **Container fails to start with `gunicorn: executable file not found`:**
  - Ensure `gunicorn` is in production dependencies, not just dev.
  - Run `poetry lock` and redeploy.
- **Application Error page on Azure:**
  - Check Azure Log Stream for startup errors.
  - Confirm all required environment variables are set.
  - Test the image locally with:
    ```sh
    docker run -e OPENAI_API_KEY=yourkey -e DATABASE_URL=yourdb -p 8000:8000 ghcr.io/genai-gurus/phronesis/phronesis-backend:<sha>
    ```
- **CI/CD Fails:**
  - Ensure all tests pass and code is formatted.
  - Check that all dependencies are included in `pyproject.toml` and locked.

### References
- See [backend/README.md](backend/README.md) for detailed backend and Docker instructions.
- See Azure App Service [official docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-custom-container?tabs=python&pivots=container-linux).

---

## Frontend Authentication & Validation (as of 2025-04-16)

## Tension Detector Logic
- Backend service for detecting "tension" in user value check-ins.
- Flags:
  - Value conflicts (e.g., high scores for values that are often in tension, such as Courage vs. Caution).
  - Rapid swings in a value over time (change of 5+ points between check-ins).
- Used for analytics, user feedback, and future AI guidance.
- Fully unit tested (expected, edge, failure cases).

## Decision Support Chat API
- **Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/decision-support/chat`
- **Request:**
  ```json
  {
    "messages": [
      { "role": "user", "content": "I'm struggling with a big decision." }
    ],
    "context": "optional context or metadata"
  }
  ```
- **Response:**
  ```json
  {
    "reply": "AI: I see you said 'I'm struggling with a big decision.'. How can I help you think this through?",
    "suggestions": ["Clarify your goals", "Consider possible outcomes", "Reflect on your values"]
  }
  ```
- **Behavior:**
  - Last message must be from the user; otherwise, returns 400.
  - Returns a mock AI reply and suggestions for now (OpenAI integration can be added later).
- **Tests:** Fully unit tested (expected, edge, failure cases).

- Registration and Login UI implemented with React, Vite, TypeScript, and Material UI.
- All client-side validation, error handling, and backend integration are complete.
- All authentication-related frontend tests pass.
- Note: Browser-native validation (`required` attribute) is disabled in test mode to ensure custom validation is exercised and testable in React Testing Library.

## Implemented Backend APIs (as of 2025-04-15)
- User Registration: `POST /api/v1/register`
- Authentication: `POST /api/v1/auth/login` (JWT-based)
- User Profile: `GET /api/v1/profile`, `PUT /api/v1/profile`
- **Decision Chat Sessions & Messages:**
  - `POST /api/v1/decisions/sessions` — Create a DecisionChatSession (requires JWT)
    - Request: `{ "title": string }`
    - Response: `{ "id": UUID, "title": string, "started_at": datetime, ... }`
  - `GET /api/v1/decisions/sessions` — List sessions for current user
  - `POST /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}/messages` — Create a message in a session
    - Request: `{ "content": string, "sender": "user"|"ai" }`
    - Response: `{ "id": UUID, "session_id": UUID, "sender": string, "content": string, ... }`
  - `GET /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}/messages` — List messages for a session
  - `PATCH /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}` — Update session status/summary/insights
  - All endpoints return 401 if not authenticated, 404 if not found, and 422 for validation errors.
- All endpoints are covered by Pytest unit tests (expected, edge, and failure cases) in `/backend/tests/app/api/v1/endpoints/test_decisions.py`.

## Personalization
- Start with a basic value assessment for each user during onboarding.

## Competitive Edge
- No specific competitors or benchmarks targeted at this stage; focus on unique positioning through user-centric design and empathetic support.

## Architecture Design (MVP)

### High-Level Component Diagram
```plantuml
@startuml
rectangle Frontend as FE
rectangle Backend as BE
rectangle Database as DB
rectangle OpenAI_API as OpenAI
rectangle Azure_Blob_Storage as Blob

FE -- BE : REST API
BE -- DB : SQL/Cosmos DB
BE -- Blob : File Uploads (audio/text)
BE -- OpenAI : AI Prompts/Analysis
@enduml
```

### API Layer Diagram
```plantuml
@startuml
package "Frontend (ReactJS)" {
  [Registration]
  [Login]
  [Dashboard]
  [Decision Journal]
  [Value Calibration]
}
package "Backend (FastAPI)" {
  [Auth Controller]
  [User Controller]
  [Decision Controller]
  [Reflection Controller]
  [Value Calibration Controller]
  [Notification Service]
  [OpenAI Service]
}

[Registration] --> [Auth Controller] : POST /register
[Login] --> [Auth Controller] : POST /login
[Dashboard] --> [User Controller] : GET /user/me
[Decision Journal] --> [Decision Controller] : CRUD /decisions
[Decision Journal] --> [Reflection Controller] : GET /prompts
[Value Calibration] --> [Value Calibration Controller] : POST /checkin
[Backend (FastAPI)] --> [OpenAI Service] : AI Prompts
[Backend (FastAPI)] --> [Notification Service] : Reminders
@enduml
```

### Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD)
```plantuml
@startuml
entity User {
  * id : UUID
  * email : string
  * ...
}
entity DecisionJournalEntry {
  * id : UUID
  * user_id : UUID
  * ...
}
entity ReflectionPrompt {
  * id : UUID
  * entry_id : UUID
  * ...
}
entity ReflectionResponse {
  * id : UUID
  * prompt_id : UUID
  * user_id : UUID
  * ...
}
entity ValueCalibrationCheckin {
  * id : UUID
  * user_id : UUID
  * ...
}
User ||--o{ DecisionJournalEntry : "makes"
DecisionJournalEntry ||--o{ ReflectionPrompt : "has"
ReflectionPrompt ||--o{ ReflectionResponse : "answered by"
User ||--o{ ReflectionResponse : "writes"
User ||--o{ ValueCalibrationCheckin : "checks in"
@enduml
```

### Authentication & Authorization Flow
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"

User -> FE : Enter Credentials
FE -> BE : POST /login
BE -> DB : Validate User
DB --> BE : User Info
BE -> FE : JWT Token
FE -> User : Access Granted
@enduml
```

### Notification Flow
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant BE as "Backend"
participant Notification as "Notification Service"
participant FE as "Frontend"

BE -> Notification : Schedule Reminder
Notification -> User : Push/Email Notification
User -> FE : Clicks Notification
FE -> BE : Fetches Relevant Data
@enduml
```

### Data Flow Diagram (Decision Journal Entry)
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
User -> FE : Fill Decision Form
FE -> BE : POST /decision_journal
BE -> DB : Store Entry
BE -> OpenAI : Generate Reflection Prompts
OpenAI --> BE : Prompts
BE -> DB : Store Prompts
BE -> FE : Success + Prompts
@enduml
```

### Sequence Diagram (User Registration)
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"

User -> FE : Enter Registration Info
FE -> BE : POST /register
BE -> DB : Create User
DB --> BE : Success
BE -> FE : Registration Success
FE -> User : Show Dashboard
@enduml
```

### Technology Stack
- Frontend: ReactJS (PWA, mobile-first)
- Backend: Python (FastAPI preferred for async)
- Database: Azure SQL Database or Azure Cosmos DB
- Cloud: Azure App Service (or Azure Functions for serverless)
- Storage: Azure Blob Storage (for user-generated content)
- AI Integration: OpenAI API (secure key management)
- Monitoring: Azure Application Insights

### Key Architectural Decisions
- RESTful API between frontend and backend
- All user data encrypted in transit and at rest
- Modular backend for easy scaling and future microservices
- PWA for offline-first experience

## User Journey Diagrams

### 1. Decision Logging & Reflection Flow
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"
participant OpenAI as "OpenAI API"

User -> FE : Start Chat Session
FE -> BE : POST /start_decision_chat
BE -> DB : Create DecisionChatSession
loop Context Gathering
    BE -> OpenAI : Request Context Questions
    OpenAI --> BE : Questions
    BE -> FE : Show Question
    User -> FE : Reply (free text)
    FE -> BE : POST /chat_message
    BE -> DB : Store Message
end
loop Reflection
    BE -> OpenAI : Request Reflection Prompts
    OpenAI --> BE : Prompts
    BE -> FE : Show Prompt
    User -> FE : Reply (free text)
    FE -> BE : POST /chat_message
    BE -> DB : Store Message
end
BE -> OpenAI : Summarize Session & Extract Insights
OpenAI --> BE : Summary & Insights
BE -> DB : Store Summary/Insights in Session
BE -> FE : Show Session Summary to User
@enduml
```

**Note:** At the end of each session, OpenAI is called to summarize the conversation and extract key insights, which are stored in the session for later use (e.g., analytics, progress tracking, personalized prompts).

### 2. Value Calibration Check-in
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"

User -> FE : Open Value Calibration
FE -> BE : GET /value_checkin_form
BE -> FE : Show Check-in Quiz
User -> FE : Submit Check-in
FE -> BE : POST /value_checkin
BE -> DB : Store Check-in
BE -> FE : Show Value Evolution Visualization
@enduml
```

### 3. Decision Support Chat Flow
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant OpenAI as "OpenAI API"

User -> FE : Open Decision Support Chat
FE -> BE : Start Chat Session
User -> FE : Send Decision Context/Question
FE -> BE : POST /chat_message
BE -> OpenAI : Request Context-Aware Suggestion
OpenAI --> BE : Suggestion/Simulation
BE -> FE : Show Suggestion or Future-Self Simulation
User -> FE : Continue Conversation
@enduml
```

### 4. Gamification & Progress Tracking
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"

User -> FE : Start Daily Challenge
FE -> BE : GET /daily_challenge
BE -> FE : Show Challenge
User -> FE : Complete Challenge
FE -> BE : POST /challenge_result
BE -> DB : Store Result, Update Streak/Badges
BE -> FE : Show Earned Badge/Progress Metrics
@enduml
```

## Key Data Entities (MVP)

### Core Entities

1. **User**
   - id (UUID)
   - email
   - password_hash
   - name
   - demographics (age, gender, location, etc.)
   - values_blueprint (basic value assessment results)
   - registration_date

2. **DecisionChatSession**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key, UUID)
   - title (string, required)
   - started_at (datetime)
   - completed_at (datetime, nullable)
   - status (enum: context_gathering, reflection, completed)
   - summary (text, nullable)
   - insights (text, nullable)

3. **DecisionChatMessage**
   - id (UUID)
   - session_id (foreign key, UUID)
   - sender (enum: user, ai, context, reflection)
   - content (text)
   - created_at (datetime)

4. **DecisionJournalEntry**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - title
   - context
   - anticipated_outcomes
   - values (list of values touched by decision)
   - domain (auto-tagged: career, health, relationships, etc.)
   - sentiment (auto-analyzed)
   - created_at
   - updated_at

5. **ReflectionPrompt**
   - id (UUID)
   - entry_id (foreign key to DecisionJournalEntry)
   - prompt_text
   - ai_generated (bool)
   - created_at

6. **ReflectionResponse**
   - id (UUID)
   - prompt_id (foreign key)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - response_text
   - created_at

7. **ValueCalibrationCheckin**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - checkin_date
   - values_assessment

### Gamification Entities

8. **UserStreak**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - streak_type (daily, weekly, etc.)
   - current_count
   - last_completed (datetime)

9. **Badge**
   - id (UUID)
   - name
   - description
   - criteria (JSON or text)

10. **UserBadge**
    - id (UUID)
    - user_id (foreign key)
    - badge_id (foreign key)
    - date_awarded

11. **Challenge**
    - id (UUID)
    - name
    - description
    - type (daily, reflection, etc.)
    - start_date
    - end_date

12. **UserChallenge**
    - id (UUID)
    - user_id (foreign key)
    - challenge_id (foreign key)
    - status (pending, completed)
    - date_completed

---
**Note:**
- Decision logging and reflection will be handled through a conversational chat interface. The LLM will ask clarifying/context questions, then transition to reflection prompts. All exchanges are stored as chat messages, with session phases tracked.

1. **User**
   - id (UUID)
   - email
   - password_hash
   - name
   - demographics (age, gender, location, etc.)
   - values_blueprint (basic value assessment results)
   - registration_date

2. **DecisionJournalEntry**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - title
   - context
   - anticipated_outcomes
   - values (list of values touched by decision)
   - domain (auto-tagged: career, health, relationships, etc.)
   - sentiment (auto-analyzed)
   - created_at
   - updated_at

3. **ReflectionPrompt**
   - id (UUID)
   - entry_id (foreign key to DecisionJournalEntry)
   - prompt_text
   - ai_generated (bool)
   - created_at

4. **ReflectionResponse**
   - id (UUID)
   - prompt_id (foreign key)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - response_text
   - created_at

5. **ValueCalibrationCheckin**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - checkin_date
   - values_assessment

Commit message:

feat(reflection-prompts): Complete backend OpenAI integration, frontend UI, robust tests, and documentation. All progress tracked in progress.md. [skip ci]

specification.md, after:

# Phronesis Product Specification (MVP)

## Project Metadata
- GitHub Organization: genai-gurus
- Main Repo: https://github.com/genai-gurus/phronesis
- Azure Resource Prefix: phronesis
- Default Branch: main


## Overview & Vision
Phronesis is a B2C platform for mindful decision-making. It helps users reflect on past decisions, capture insights, and receive tailored decision support based on their values, personality, and circumstances. The platform aims to foster a habit of mindful decision-making, leveraging user-generated data for a feedback flywheel that enables deep personalization and continuous improvement.

## Target Audience
Individuals who fear losing or recently lost their job due to AI automation.

## Tone & Branding
The platform should feel warm and supportive, offering encouragement and empathy throughout the user journey.

## MVP Scope
- Focus on a functional MVP that implements the tasks listed in progress.md.
- Prioritize features that support reflection, journaling, and basic value assessment.

---

## AI-Powered Reflection Prompts

- **Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/reflection/prompts/generate`
- **Purpose:** Generate personalized reflection prompts for a decision journal entry using OpenAI GPT-3.5-turbo (if `OPENAI_API_KEY` is set).
- **Request:**
  ```json
  {
    "entry_id": "<journal_entry_uuid>"
  }
  ```
- **Response:**
  ```json
  {
    "prompts": [
      "Why did you make this decision?",
      "What values did it touch?",
      "How do you feel now?"
    ],
    "ai_generated": true
  }
  ```
- **Fallback:** If `OPENAI_API_KEY` is not set or API call fails, static prompts are returned.
- **Security:** Requires authentication (JWT Bearer token).
- **Environment Variable:**
  - `OPENAI_API_KEY` (required for AI prompts)

## CI/CD Status & Contributor Guidance (as of 2025-04-16)
- LLM-as-judge integration test runs in CI for Decision Support Chat API (uses OpenAI GPT-4.1-nano as a judge).
- Test output (including OpenAI prompts, answers, and verdicts) is printed in CI logs for transparency.
- backend/test.db is deleted before every CI run to ensure a clean test environment.
- Black formatting is enforced for all backend Python code and tests.
- .env, test.db, and temporary files are gitignored and never committed.
- All secrets (e.g., OPENAI_API_KEY) are managed via GitHub Actions secrets or .env files (never committed).

- Both backend and frontend CI/CD pipelines (GitHub Actions) are fully passing.
- **Backend pipeline:** Installs with Poetry, checks formatting with Black, and runs all pytest tests with `PYTHONPATH=.`. Contributors must ensure code is formatted and all tests pass before merging.
- **Frontend pipeline:** Installs Node dependencies, lints with ESLint, runs Vitest tests, and builds with Vite. All source files (especially `index.html` and new components/pages) must be tracked by git.
- **Troubleshooting:**
  - If backend tests fail with import errors, check `PYTHONPATH=.` and module locations.
  - If frontend build fails, ensure `index.html` is present and all relevant files are committed.
  - If Black fails, run `poetry run black app tests` and commit.
- See README.md files for more troubleshooting and pipeline details.

---

## Backend Deployment to Azure App Service (Docker, GHCR)

### Overview
The backend is deployed to Azure App Service using a custom Docker image, which is built and pushed to GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) via GitHub Actions. This process ensures secure, production-grade deployment with best practices for secret management and image hygiene.

### Prerequisites
- **Azure App Service** instance created (Linux, Docker).
- **GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)** used for storing production images (see workflow).
- Required secrets set in Azure App Service Configuration:
  - `DATABASE_URL`
  - `OPENAI_API_KEY`
  - Any other environment variables needed for production.

### Deployment Steps
1. **Build and Push Docker Image**
   - The GitHub Actions workflow ([.github/workflows/azure-backend.yml](.github/workflows/azure-backend.yml)) builds the Docker image and pushes it to GHCR at `ghcr.io/genai-gurus/phronesis/phronesis-backend:<sha>`.
   - The Dockerfile uses Poetry for dependency management and installs all production dependencies.

2. **Configure App Service**
   - Set environment variables in the Azure Portal under Configuration > Application settings.
   - Never store secrets in the image or repository; always inject at runtime.

3. **Update .dockerignore**
   - `.dockerignore` excludes files such as `.env`, `secrets.*`, `*.key`, `*.pem` to prevent accidental leakage of secrets.

4. **Production Dependencies**
   - `gunicorn` must be included in `[tool.poetry.dependencies]` in `pyproject.toml` to ensure the container can start with the correct command.
   - After adding new dependencies, always run `poetry lock` and commit the updated lock file.

5. **Run Database Migrations**
   - After deployment, run Alembic migrations on your production database:
     ```sh
     poetry run alembic upgrade head
     ```

6. **Test the Deployment**
   - Access the app at `https://phronesis-backend-app.azurewebsites.net`.
   - Optionally, test `/docs` or `/health` endpoints for confirmation.

### Security Best Practices
- **No secrets in Docker images:** All secrets are injected at runtime via environment variables.
- **.dockerignore:** Ensures sensitive files are never included in the build context.
- **Public images:** If publishing images publicly on GHCR, ensure no secrets or sensitive files are present in the image.

### Troubleshooting
- **Container fails to start with `gunicorn: executable file not found`:**
  - Ensure `gunicorn` is in production dependencies, not just dev.
  - Run `poetry lock` and redeploy.
- **Application Error page on Azure:**
  - Check Azure Log Stream for startup errors.
  - Confirm all required environment variables are set.
  - Test the image locally with:
    ```sh
    docker run -e OPENAI_API_KEY=yourkey -e DATABASE_URL=yourdb -p 8000:8000 ghcr.io/genai-gurus/phronesis/phronesis-backend:<sha>
    ```
- **CI/CD Fails:**
  - Ensure all tests pass and code is formatted.
  - Check that all dependencies are included in `pyproject.toml` and locked.

### References
- See [backend/README.md](backend/README.md) for detailed backend and Docker instructions.
- See Azure App Service [official docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-custom-container?tabs=python&pivots=container-linux).

---

## Frontend Authentication & Validation (as of 2025-04-16)

## Tension Detector Logic
- Backend service for detecting "tension" in user value check-ins.
- Flags:
  - Value conflicts (e.g., high scores for values that are often in tension, such as Courage vs. Caution).
  - Rapid swings in a value over time (change of 5+ points between check-ins).
- Used for analytics, user feedback, and future AI guidance.
- Fully unit tested (expected, edge, failure cases).

## Decision Support Chat API
- **Endpoint:** `POST /api/v1/decision-support/chat`
- **Request:**
  ```json
  {
    "messages": [
      { "role": "user", "content": "I'm struggling with a big decision." }
    ],
    "context": "optional context or metadata"
  }
  ```
- **Response:**
  ```json
  {
    "reply": "AI: I see you said 'I'm struggling with a big decision.'. How can I help you think this through?",
    "suggestions": ["Clarify your goals", "Consider possible outcomes", "Reflect on your values"]
  }
  ```
- **Behavior:**
  - Last message must be from the user; otherwise, returns 400.
  - Returns a mock AI reply and suggestions for now (OpenAI integration can be added later).
- **Tests:** Fully unit tested (expected, edge, failure cases).

- Registration and Login UI implemented with React, Vite, TypeScript, and Material UI.
- All client-side validation, error handling, and backend integration are complete.
- All authentication-related frontend tests pass.
- Note: Browser-native validation (`required` attribute) is disabled in test mode to ensure custom validation is exercised and testable in React Testing Library.

## Implemented Backend APIs (as of 2025-04-15)
- User Registration: `POST /api/v1/register`
- Authentication: `POST /api/v1/auth/login` (JWT-based)
- User Profile: `GET /api/v1/profile`, `PUT /api/v1/profile`
- **Decision Chat Sessions & Messages:**
  - `POST /api/v1/decisions/sessions` — Create a DecisionChatSession (requires JWT)
    - Request: `{ "title": string }`
    - Response: `{ "id": UUID, "title": string, "started_at": datetime, ... }`
  - `GET /api/v1/decisions/sessions` — List sessions for current user
  - `POST /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}/messages` — Create a message in a session
    - Request: `{ "content": string, "sender": "user"|"ai" }`
    - Response: `{ "id": UUID, "session_id": UUID, "sender": string, "content": string, ... }`
  - `GET /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}/messages` — List messages for a session
  - `PATCH /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}` — Update session status/summary/insights
  - All endpoints return 401 if not authenticated, 404 if not found, and 422 for validation errors.
- All endpoints are covered by Pytest unit tests (expected, edge, and failure cases) in `/backend/tests/app/api/v1/endpoints/test_decisions.py`.

## Personalization
- Start with a basic value assessment for each user during onboarding.

## Competitive Edge
- No specific competitors or benchmarks targeted at this stage; focus on unique positioning through user-centric design and empathetic support.

## Architecture Design (MVP)

### High-Level Component Diagram
```plantuml
@startuml
rectangle Frontend as FE
rectangle Backend as BE
rectangle Database as DB
rectangle OpenAI_API as OpenAI
rectangle Azure_Blob_Storage as Blob

FE -- BE : REST API
BE -- DB : SQL/Cosmos DB
BE -- Blob : File Uploads (audio/text)
BE -- OpenAI : AI Prompts/Analysis
@enduml
```

### API Layer Diagram
```plantuml
@startuml
package "Frontend (ReactJS)" {
  [Registration]
  [Login]
  [Dashboard]
  [Decision Journal]
  [Value Calibration]
}
package "Backend (FastAPI)" {
  [Auth Controller]
  [User Controller]
  [Decision Controller]
  [Reflection Controller]
  [Value Calibration Controller]
  [Notification Service]
  [OpenAI Service]
}

[Registration] --> [Auth Controller] : POST /register
[Login] --> [Auth Controller] : POST /login
[Dashboard] --> [User Controller] : GET /user/me
[Decision Journal] --> [Decision Controller] : CRUD /decisions
[Decision Journal] --> [Reflection Controller] : GET /prompts
[Value Calibration] --> [Value Calibration Controller] : POST /checkin
[Backend (FastAPI)] --> [OpenAI Service] : AI Prompts
[Backend (FastAPI)] --> [Notification Service] : Reminders
@enduml
```

### Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD)
```plantuml
@startuml
entity User {
  * id : UUID
  * email : string
  * ...
}
entity DecisionJournalEntry {
  * id : UUID
  * user_id : UUID
  * ...
}
entity ReflectionPrompt {
  * id : UUID
  * entry_id : UUID
  * ...
}
entity ReflectionResponse {
  * id : UUID
  * prompt_id : UUID
  * user_id : UUID
  * ...
}
entity ValueCalibrationCheckin {
  * id : UUID
  * user_id : UUID
  * ...
}
User ||--o{ DecisionJournalEntry : "makes"
DecisionJournalEntry ||--o{ ReflectionPrompt : "has"
ReflectionPrompt ||--o{ ReflectionResponse : "answered by"
User ||--o{ ReflectionResponse : "writes"
User ||--o{ ValueCalibrationCheckin : "checks in"
@enduml
```

### Authentication & Authorization Flow
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"

User -> FE : Enter Credentials
FE -> BE : POST /login
BE -> DB : Validate User
DB --> BE : User Info
BE -> FE : JWT Token
FE -> User : Access Granted
@enduml
```

### Notification Flow
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant BE as "Backend"
participant Notification as "Notification Service"
participant FE as "Frontend"

BE -> Notification : Schedule Reminder
Notification -> User : Push/Email Notification
User -> FE : Clicks Notification
FE -> BE : Fetches Relevant Data
@enduml
```

### Data Flow Diagram (Decision Journal Entry)
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
User -> FE : Fill Decision Form
FE -> BE : POST /decision_journal
BE -> DB : Store Entry
BE -> OpenAI : Generate Reflection Prompts
OpenAI --> BE : Prompts
BE -> DB : Store Prompts
BE -> FE : Success + Prompts
@enduml
```

### Sequence Diagram (User Registration)
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"

User -> FE : Enter Registration Info
FE -> BE : POST /register
BE -> DB : Create User
DB --> BE : Success
BE -> FE : Registration Success
FE -> User : Show Dashboard
@enduml
```

### Technology Stack
- Frontend: ReactJS (PWA, mobile-first)
- Backend: Python (FastAPI preferred for async)
- Database: Azure SQL Database or Azure Cosmos DB
- Cloud: Azure App Service (or Azure Functions for serverless)
- Storage: Azure Blob Storage (for user-generated content)
- AI Integration: OpenAI API (secure key management)
- Monitoring: Azure Application Insights

### Key Architectural Decisions
- RESTful API between frontend and backend
- All user data encrypted in transit and at rest
- Modular backend for easy scaling and future microservices
- PWA for offline-first experience

## User Journey Diagrams

### 1. Decision Logging & Reflection Flow
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"
participant OpenAI as "OpenAI API"

User -> FE : Start Chat Session
FE -> BE : POST /start_decision_chat
BE -> DB : Create DecisionChatSession
loop Context Gathering
    BE -> OpenAI : Request Context Questions
    OpenAI --> BE : Questions
    BE -> FE : Show Question
    User -> FE : Reply (free text)
    FE -> BE : POST /chat_message
    BE -> DB : Store Message
end
loop Reflection
    BE -> OpenAI : Request Reflection Prompts
    OpenAI --> BE : Prompts
    BE -> FE : Show Prompt
    User -> FE : Reply (free text)
    FE -> BE : POST /chat_message
    BE -> DB : Store Message
end
BE -> OpenAI : Summarize Session & Extract Insights
OpenAI --> BE : Summary & Insights
BE -> DB : Store Summary/Insights in Session
BE -> FE : Show Session Summary to User
@enduml
```

**Note:** At the end of each session, OpenAI is called to summarize the conversation and extract key insights, which are stored in the session for later use (e.g., analytics, progress tracking, personalized prompts).

### 2. Value Calibration Check-in
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"

User -> FE : Open Value Calibration
FE -> BE : GET /value_checkin_form
BE -> FE : Show Check-in Quiz
User -> FE : Submit Check-in
FE -> BE : POST /value_checkin
BE -> DB : Store Check-in
BE -> FE : Show Value Evolution Visualization
@enduml
```

### 3. Decision Support Chat Flow
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant OpenAI as "OpenAI API"

User -> FE : Open Decision Support Chat
FE -> BE : Start Chat Session
User -> FE : Send Decision Context/Question
FE -> BE : POST /chat_message
BE -> OpenAI : Request Context-Aware Suggestion
OpenAI --> BE : Suggestion/Simulation
BE -> FE : Show Suggestion or Future-Self Simulation
User -> FE : Continue Conversation
@enduml
```

### 4. Gamification & Progress Tracking
```plantuml
@startuml
actor User
participant FE as "Frontend"
participant BE as "Backend"
participant DB as "Database"

User -> FE : Start Daily Challenge
FE -> BE : GET /daily_challenge
BE -> FE : Show Challenge
User -> FE : Complete Challenge
FE -> BE : POST /challenge_result
BE -> DB : Store Result, Update Streak/Badges
BE -> FE : Show Earned Badge/Progress Metrics
@enduml
```

## Key Data Entities (MVP)

### Core Entities

1. **User**
   - id (UUID)
   - email
   - password_hash
   - name
   - demographics (age, gender, location, etc.)
   - values_blueprint (basic value assessment results)
   - registration_date

2. **DecisionChatSession**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key, UUID)
   - title (string, required)
   - started_at (datetime)
   - completed_at (datetime, nullable)
   - status (enum: context_gathering, reflection, completed)
   - summary (text, nullable)
   - insights (text, nullable)

3. **DecisionChatMessage**
   - id (UUID)
   - session_id (foreign key, UUID)
   - sender (enum: user, ai, context, reflection)
   - content (text)
   - created_at (datetime)

4. **DecisionJournalEntry**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - title
   - context
   - anticipated_outcomes
   - values (list of values touched by decision)
   - domain (auto-tagged: career, health, relationships, etc.)
   - sentiment (auto-analyzed)
   - created_at
   - updated_at

5. **ReflectionPrompt**
   - id (UUID)
   - entry_id (foreign key to DecisionJournalEntry)
   - prompt_text
   - ai_generated (bool)
   - created_at

6. **ReflectionResponse**
   - id (UUID)
   - prompt_id (foreign key)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - response_text
   - created_at

7. **ValueCalibrationCheckin**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - checkin_date
   - values_assessment

### Gamification Entities

8. **UserStreak**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - streak_type (daily, weekly, etc.)
   - current_count
   - last_completed (datetime)

9. **Badge**
   - id (UUID)
   - name
   - description
   - criteria (JSON or text)

10. **UserBadge**
    - id (UUID)
    - user_id (foreign key)
    - badge_id (foreign key)
    - date_awarded

11. **Challenge**
    - id (UUID)
    - name
    - description
    - type (daily, reflection, etc.)
    - start_date
    - end_date

12. **UserChallenge**
    - id (UUID)
    - user_id (foreign key)
    - challenge_id (foreign key)
    - status (pending, completed)
    - date_completed

---
**Note:**
- Decision logging and reflection will be handled through a conversational chat interface. The LLM will ask clarifying/context questions, then transition to reflection prompts. All exchanges are stored as chat messages, with session phases tracked.

1. **User**
   - id (UUID)
   - email
   - password_hash
   - name
   - demographics (age, gender, location, etc.)
   - values_blueprint (basic value assessment results)
   - registration_date

2. **DecisionJournalEntry**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - title
   - context
   - anticipated_outcomes
   - values (list of values touched by decision)
   - domain (auto-tagged: career, health, relationships, etc.)
   - sentiment (auto-analyzed)
   - created_at
   - updated_at

3. **ReflectionPrompt**
   - id (UUID)
   - entry_id (foreign key to DecisionJournalEntry)
   - prompt_text
   - ai_generated (bool)
   - created_at

4. **ReflectionResponse**
   - id (UUID)
   - prompt_id (foreign key)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - response_text
   - created_at

5. **ValueCalibrationCheckin**
   - id (UUID)
   - user_id (foreign key)
   - checkin_date
   - values_assessment
