backend/README.md, before:

# Phronesis Backend

A modular, expandable, and AI-friendly backend for the Phronesis platform, built with FastAPI and structured for maintainability and future growth.

---

## Decision Chat Endpoints (MVP)

- **Create Session:** `POST /api/v1/decisions/sessions` — `{ "title": string }` → `{ "id": UUID, ... }`
- **List Sessions:** `GET /api/v1/decisions/sessions`
- **Create Message:** `POST /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}/messages` — `{ "content": string, "sender": "user"|"ai" }` → `{ "id": UUID, ... }`
- **List Messages:** `GET /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}/messages`
- **Update Session:** `PATCH /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}`
- All endpoints require JWT authentication and return proper status codes (401, 404, 422).
- Full Pytest coverage: see `/backend/tests/app/api/v1/endpoints/test_decisions.py`.

## Database Migrations (Alembic)

To keep your database schema in sync with your SQLAlchemy models, use Alembic migrations as follows:

### 1. Local Development (SQLite)
- Set `DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///./dev.db` in your `.env` file.
- Generate a new migration after changing models:
  ```sh
  poetry run alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Describe your change"
  ```

### 2. Production (Azure SQL)
- Set `DATABASE_URL` to your Azure SQL connection string (from Key Vault or Azure Portal).
- Apply all migrations to your cloud database:
  ```sh
  poetry run alembic upgrade head
  ```

### Notes
- This ensures your schema is up to date both locally and in production.
- See `backend/.env.example` and `backend/alembic/` for configuration and migration scripts.
- Only generate migrations from the main branch and after verifying model changes.

---

## Deploying to Azure App Service (Docker)

1. **Build and Push Docker Image**
   - Azure App Service can build directly from your repo, or you can build/push to Azure Container Registry (ACR):
     ```sh
     docker build -t phronesis-backend .
     docker tag phronesis-backend <youracr>.azurecr.io/phronesis-backend:latest
     docker push <youracr>.azurecr.io/phronesis-backend:latest
     ```
2. **Configure App Service**
   - Set environment variables (e.g., `DATABASE_URL`, `OPENAI_API_KEY`, etc.) in the Azure Portal (Configuration > Application settings).
   - Do NOT commit secrets; use Azure Key Vault or App Service settings.
3. **Run Database Migrations**
   - Use the Azure Cloud Shell or a CI/CD step:
     ```sh
     poetry run alembic upgrade head
     ```
4. **Dockerfile and .dockerignore**
   - See `backend/Dockerfile` for the production build setup.
   - See `backend/.dockerignore` to keep Docker images clean and builds fast.

For more details, see Azure App Service [docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-custom-container?tabs=python&pivots=container-linux).

Commit message:

feat: Implement Progress Visualization UI with tests, chart polyfill, and documentation. Backend black formatting applied.

backend/README.md, after:

# Phronesis Backend

A modular, expandable, and AI-friendly backend for the Phronesis platform, built with FastAPI and structured for maintainability and future growth.

---

## Decision Chat Endpoints (MVP)\n\n## Future-Self Simulator API\n\n- **POST /api/v1/future-self/simulate**\n- **Auth:** Required (JWT Bearer)\n- **Purpose:** AI-powered simulation of user's likely \"future self\" based on a decision context, values, and optional time horizon.\n\n### Request Schema\n```json\n{\n  \"decision_context\": \"Should I move to a new city for a job opportunity?\",\n  \"values\": [\"growth\", \"security\"],\n  \"time_horizon\": \"2 years\"\n}\n```\n\n### Response Schema\n```json\n{\n  \"future_projection\": \"In two years, after moving to the new city, you have grown professionally and expanded your network. The transition was challenging at first, but you adapted and found new sources of security and fulfillment.\",\n  \"suggestions\": [\n    \"Research neighborhoods and cost of living.\",\n    \"Connect with local professional groups before moving.\",\n    \"Reflect on what you need to feel secure during transitions.\"\n  ],\n  \"ai_generated\": true\n}\n```\n\n- **Summary:** Simulate your “future self” based on a decision context and values.\n- **Description:** Uses AI to project a narrative of your likely future self given a specific decision, values, and optional time horizon.\n- **Tags:** [\"future-self\", \"simulation\", \"decision support\"]\n

- **Create Session:** `POST /api/v1/decisions/sessions` — `{ "title": string }` → `{ "id": UUID, ... }`
- **List Sessions:** `GET /api/v1/decisions/sessions`
- **Create Message:** `POST /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}/messages` — `{ "content": string, "sender": "user"|"ai" }` → `{ "id": UUID, ... }`
- **List Messages:** `GET /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}/messages`
- **Update Session:** `PATCH /api/v1/decisions/sessions/{session_id}`
- All endpoints require JWT authentication and return proper status codes (401, 404, 422).
- Full Pytest coverage: see `/backend/tests/app/api/v1/endpoints/test_decisions.py`.

## Database Migrations (Alembic)

To keep your database schema in sync with your SQLAlchemy models, use Alembic migrations as follows:

### 1. Local Development (SQLite)
- Set `DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///./dev.db` in your `.env` file.
- Generate a new migration after changing models:
  ```sh
  poetry run alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Describe your change"
  ```

### 2. Production (Azure SQL)
- Set `DATABASE_URL` to your Azure SQL connection string (from Key Vault or Azure Portal).
- Apply all migrations to your cloud database:
  ```sh
  poetry run alembic upgrade head
  ```

### Notes
- This ensures your schema is up to date both locally and in production.
- See `backend/.env.example` and `backend/alembic/` for configuration and migration scripts.
- Only generate migrations from the main branch and after verifying model changes.

---

## Deploying to Azure App Service (Docker)

1. **Build and Push Docker Image**
   - Azure App Service can build directly from your repo, or you can build/push to Azure Container Registry (ACR):
     ```sh
     docker build -t phronesis-backend .
     docker tag phronesis-backend <youracr>.azurecr.io/phronesis-backend:latest
     docker push <youracr>.azurecr.io/phronesis-backend:latest
     ```
2. **Configure App Service**
   - Set environment variables (e.g., `DATABASE_URL`, `OPENAI_API_KEY`, etc.) in the Azure Portal (Configuration > Application settings).
   - Do NOT commit secrets; use Azure Key Vault or App Service settings.
3. **Run Database Migrations**
   - Use the Azure Cloud Shell or a CI/CD step:
     ```sh
     poetry run alembic upgrade head
     ```
4. **Dockerfile and .dockerignore**
   - See `backend/Dockerfile` for the production build setup.
   - See `backend/.dockerignore` to keep Docker images clean and builds fast.

For more details, see Azure App Service [docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-custom-container?tabs=python&pivots=container-linux).
