system-tests/README.md, before:

# System Playwright Tests for Phronesis

This folder contains all system-level (end-to-end) Playwright tests for the Phronesis platform. These tests cover authentication, journaling, chat, gamification, security, and other full-stack flows.

## Why are system tests here?
- Keeping system tests outside the frontend/ directory prevents unnecessary production redeploys when only test code changes.
- This location allows the tests to cover both frontend and backend integration.

## How to run
From the repo root or this directory:

```
cd system-tests
npx playwright test
```

- **Tests run against the deployed production frontend:** https://ambitious-ground-0a5060803.6.azurestaticapps.net/
- **Browsers/devices covered:**
  - Desktop Chrome
  - Mobile Chrome (Pixel 5)
  - Mobile Safari (iPhone 15 Pro)
- **Video and screenshots are recorded for every test** and available in the Playwright HTML report.
- **No local server is needed.**
- To view the latest report after a run:
  ```bash
  npx playwright show-report
  ```

## Test Structure
- All test files use Playwright and share helpers from `utils/userHelpers.ts`.
- Tests are named after the feature or flow they cover.

## DO NOT place system tests in frontend/ anymore!

---

For more info, see TESTING.md or contact the maintainers.

Commit message:

docs: update all testing and chat documentation for React 18, Chatscope UI, robust E2E, and selector changes

system-tests/README.md, after:

# System Playwright Tests for Phronesis

This folder contains all system-level (end-to-end) Playwright tests for the Phronesis platform. These tests cover authentication, journaling, chat, gamification, security, and other full-stack flows.

## Why are system tests here?
- Keeping system tests outside the frontend/ directory prevents unnecessary production redeploys when only test code changes.
- This location allows the tests to cover both frontend and backend integration.

## How to run
From the repo root or this directory:

```
cd system-tests
npx playwright test
```

- **Tests run against the deployed production frontend:** https://ambitious-ground-0a5060803.6.azurestaticapps.net/
- **Browsers/devices covered:**
  - Desktop Chrome
  - Mobile Chrome (Pixel 5)
  - Mobile Safari (iPhone 15 Pro)
- **Video and screenshots are recorded for every test** and available in the Playwright HTML report.
- **No local server is needed.**
- **Note:** The frontend is currently running React 18 due to compatibility requirements with UI libraries and CI.
- **The /chat route is required for chat system tests.**
- To view the latest report after a run:
  ```bash
  npx playwright show-report
  ```

## Test Structure
- All test files use Playwright and share helpers from `utils/userHelpers.ts`.
- Tests are named after the feature or flow they cover.
- Chat system tests use Playwright to robustly check for AI replies, not just user messages.
- System test selectors and approach have been updated for Chatscope UI (contenteditable input).
- **Troubleshooting:** If the backend/API is not returning AI replies, check the API logs for errors.

## Known Limitations
- Frontend unit tests for chat UI have been skipped due to jsdom limitations.
- E2E coverage for chat UI is provided via Playwright.

## DO NOT place system tests in frontend/ anymore!

---

For more info, see TESTING.md or contact the maintainers.
